---
title: Assignment 6
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 6

## Task List

| Title                   | Instructions                                                                                       | Rationale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Symptom search          | Find and join a community for a condition whose symptoms include inattention and trouble sleeping. | The symptom search feature on my app isn’t one of the main pages– rather, it is within the Explore or Find New Communities tab. I want to test whether or not someone who isn’t the designer would think to look for it there, and if not, I want to know where it should be instead.                                          |
| Commenting and replying | Select a post on that community. Add a comment on it, and then reply to someone else’s comment.    | I designed my app so that in order to comment, you have to navigate to the page for that post first. I did this so that there aren’t too many elements at once on the community page, but I want to test whether or not a user would find the comment section intuitively.                                                     |
| Starting a chat         | Start a chat with the person whose comment you replied to.                                         | It’s worth testing to ensure that the user can easily find where they can start a chat with someone. Since there is only one place where that functionality is available on my app, it is important that it is not hard to find.                                                                                               |
| Buddy match             | Start a chat with someone you don’t know in one of your communities.                               | I want to test whether the purpose of Buddy Matching– which is to start a conversation with someone in your communities– is clear. I’m worried that the name of the feature does not imply a chat for everyone, so I’d like to know if more instructions are needed on the app.                                                |
| Add a common symptom    | Contribute a common symptom to the community that you joined earlier.                              | I want to 1) see if the user can navigate back to the community they joined earlier, and 2) ensure that they can easily find where they can add a symptom. There are multiple ways they can access the communities they have joined, and I’d like to see which one they gravitate towards.                                     |
| Create new community    | Create a new community for (IBS/Dyslexia).                                                         | Again, there is only one place in my app where a user can choose to create a new community. I want to ensure that it can easily be found, since there is no tab dedicated to this functionality alone. If the user looks somewhere else for this, I want to know whether that is a more intuitive location for this component. |
| Post to community       | Add a post to the community page you just made, and cross-post it on the community for Insomnia.   | I feel that it is worth testing whether the concept of cross-posting is clear for a user. I want to ensure that a user would know that to have a post show up on two different community pages, they don’t have to make two separate posts, and I want to know whether the language on my app can be more clear.               |

## User Testing Studies

### Participant 1
For most of the tasks, Participant 1 was able to navigate the flow of the app quickly and without help. However, when I prompted her to start a chat with someone she did not know and had not interacted with in one of her communities, she hesitated for a moment. Although she had already navigated to the chat page with the Buddy Match option on it, her eyes were more drawn to the bubble where she could start a new chat by entering a username. In this case, the flow briefly broke down over the gulf of execution, because the participant could not easily see that the correct action was available or associate it with what she was trying to do. She explained that the “Buddy Match” label was misleading and that she did not read the rest of the bubble initially, likely because she did not think that a match was related to a chat. However, in spite of the hesitation, this was resolved within a few seconds without my intervention.

Another unexpected moment occurred when I prompted Participant 1 to post on the community she created (IBS) and to cross-post it on the page for Insomnia. Participant 1 first posted on the IBS page without selecting an option for cross-posting on the form, then went back to the Explore page to find the community page for Insomnia so that she could post there as well. After initially struggling to find the Insomnia page, she went back to the IBS page and opened the post that she made, hoping to find an option to edit the communities that it was posted to. Finally, upon going back to the IBS page, she realized that the post form there had options to cross-post, and created a new post that was cross-posted to the Insomnia page. She explained to me that she initially did not see the options to cross-post or read the text in the form, as she was mostly paying attention to the large green “Create Post” button that doesn’t normally have additional options on other social media sites. Again, we experienced a break across the gulf of execution. Here it was again difficult to notice that the correct action was available, perhaps due to excessive small text in the form that the seasoned social media user may feel that they don’t need to read. In spite of this, all of the actions she took happened over the course of about 30 seconds, so it was quickly resolved without intervention. Also, there was no break over the gulf of evaluation for either of these tasks.


### Participant 2
Participant 2 also found that for the most part, the functionalities that they were looking for were easy to locate. One unexpected interaction that stood out to me was that when I asked Participant 2 to start a chat with the person whose comment they replied to earlier, they correctly navigated to the Chats page right away, but forgot the exact username of the user whose comment they replied to. As a result, they had to go back to the community page they were on before to check, which they struggled slightly to find because the sidebar where the communities were listed hadn’t updated. Once they found it, they were able to confirm the username and start the chat as expected. During the debriefing, they told me that they expected that there might be an easy way to find users on the chat page, which there was not. This is likely why they navigated straight to it instead of taking note of the username first while they were still viewing the comment. 

Like Participant 1, Participant 2 also struggled slightly with the Buddy Match prompt. Participant 2 also navigated from the Chats page back to the Depression community page to find someone, since they expected to see a list of community members there that they could select from. When they did not find a list of community members, they navigated back to the Chats page, where they found and selected the Buddy Match option. Although Participant 2 felt that the meaning of the Buddy Match concept was clear, they mentioned that the bubble for Buddy Matching was not what they noticed first on the Chats page. Here we see a break in the flow across the Gulf of Execution, as Participant 2 found that it wasn’t easy to notice that the correct option was available. In spite of a detour to the Depression community page, they did find the option and decide that it was the correct one relatively quickly overall and without intervention.


## Flaws and Opportunities for Improvement

* The first flaw I would like to address is that the Buddy Match bubble is hard to find, which I would categorize as a **major physical** issue. Neither of my participants noticed that this option was available at first, and they both navigated back to their communities to look for someone to chat with. This is likely because the placement of the bubble to the side rather than in the column with the “Start Chat” option makes it harder to notice, and the font size is small relative to the bubble. Since it is in a separate area or “group” than the other items on the Chats page, the user may not associate this option with starting a new chat. Participant 1 also stated that the name was misleading, as “Buddy Match” doesn’t necessarily imply chatting. Because of this, I could also call this a **conceptual** issue. Ways to improve this include moving the Buddy Match bubble to the same column as everything else on the page or even into the same bubble as the “Start Chat” option, giving it a more clear label like “Chat with a community member!”, increasing the font size and decreasing the amount of text, or moving the Buddy Match functionality directly into a community page in order to find someone within a specific community to chat with.
* The second flaw is that it is difficult to start a chat with a specific user. This is because if one wishes to start a chat with a specific user, one must know and input that user’s username. When asked to start a chat with a user they had interacted with before, both of my participants had forgotten the username of the user they wanted to chat with, and had to navigate back to the community page to find it. I would categorize this as a **moderate linguistic** issue, as it involves placing a recall burden on the user. I would also say that another reason that it is difficult to start a chat with a specific user is that the option to do so is found in one place only on the website. To address this in future designs, I would add a user search bar in the Chats page, or an accelerator such as autocomplete to the Start Chat form so that if the user knows part of the username that they’re looking for, they don’t have to navigate back to find the rest. I would also add a Start Chat button to the profile of each user (excluding oneself) so that from a community page, you can start a chat with someone just by going to their profile page.
* A third flaw is that a user doesn’t have a way to see who else is in their communities, which makes it difficult for there to be a sense of community at all. Although a user can see how many members each community has, the problem results from the fact that there is no list of members that can be viewed. I left it out of the app because I did not see a need for it initially, but for the Buddy Match prompt, both of my participants navigated back to the community page expecting to find a list of members they could choose from for a chat. This is also a problem because it is not possible to see who is in what community anywhere else, and because the people posting on a community page aren’t necessarily community members. I would call this a **minor conceptual** issue, because although the function isn’t entirely necessary, the interactions that are or are not possible are unclear to my participants based on their idea of what a community should be. To fix this in the future, I would not only add a member list to each community page, but a list of suggested users to chat with (along with their communities) on the Chats page. A more ambitious idea would be to have events (virtual or physical) in the community so members can interact with each other more meaningfully.
