---
title: Assignment 1
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 1

## Planning

For my social media site, my initial idea is to create an app where people with disabilities and mental illnesses can connect and form communities.

Both of the interviewees I have chosen are people I know well with different disabilities. Although they both have intersecting disabilities, one is more impacted by a physical disability, and the other is more impacted by a neurodevelopmental disorder, which I hope will provide some varying perspectives. I believe that it is not possible to fully understand what it feels like to live in a world that was not designed to meet your needs without lived experience, so I'm looking forward to learning a lot from them and how they use social media. 

With the goal of creating an app that will best serve them in mind, I've prepared the following questions about their experiences as people with disabilites as well as about their social media use. I will make sure to inform my interviewees that this information will be on a public site, that their real names will not be used, and that they are free to decline to answer a question if they wish.


1. What social media platforms do you use? Do you use each one for a different purpose, and are some better for certain purposes than others?
2. What kind of content do you dislike seeing on social media?
3. Have you ever felt overwhelmed by social media or needed to take a break from it? If so, why?
4. In your opinion, what is the benefit of connecting with new people online instead of in person? What are some drawbacks?
5. Can you think of a time when someone else with your disability gave you useful or affirming advice or tips? Is there a time when you have disagreed with someone with your disability?
6. Can you tell me about a time when you felt misunderstood or unheard by someone who doesn't have your disability?
7. In what ways do your different disabilities interact with each other? Has there ever been a time when having two disabilities at once compounded their effect?

It's possible that I won't get to all of these questions, or that I'll ask follow-up questions. For example, if one of my interviewees brings up an interesting pain point about social media, I would be curious to know more about it so I can make sure that my app does not have the same problem. If they seem eager to share experiences (positive or negative) involving other people in their communities, I would like to ask them for more examples, as this can help me think about what kinds of interactions I want to facilitate in my app. During the interview, I will type notes on my laptop underneath each question so that I can keep up with my interviewee, while ensuring that I still remain engaged with them.


## Notes
I typed notes for each interview in Google Docs.

[Interview A](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uiJlqwvu0VjyZDwkh0wWHJyvgH7sJwaaS63_fIDEKCI/edit?usp=sharing)

[Interview B](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NOWHPi8RCI_xkCgdqO6kf0Z_HCKXxZsfyq3uSGnD6Sg/edit?usp=sharing)

## Interviewee A Report
My first interview was with Interviewee A. She is a recent college graduate from my hometown in California, and she has been living with ADHD for her entire life. I spoke to Interviewee A about her social media habits, and she explained that she uses Twitter, Reddit, and YouTube to keep up with current events and friends. Although Interviewee A believes that current events are important to talk about, she emphasized that in excess, “negative news” can be upsetting, and that she turns to social media to “escape real life, not to be thrust back into it.” For Interviewee A, getting information from social media involves both navigating misinformation and striking a balance between her mental health and staying informed, which is a tension that I would like to address in my design. Interviewee A also uses social media to connect with people who have things in common with her, since she can “cast a wider net” and find people across the country or the world who she would not have had the opportunity to meet otherwise, although she also spoke about how it can be difficult to trust people she meets on the Internet.

I also spoke to Interviewee A about her experiences with ADHD. She told me about how she has felt misunderstood by people who did not have ADHD in the past. One example she gave was that when she was in college, she fell behind in her Calculus class because she was not able to focus due to her ADHD. When she gathered the courage to seek help from her professor, he dismissed her and blamed her for not getting help sooner, which was hurtful and invalidating. In contrast, people that she has met online with ADHD have been able to offer her advice that has been very helpful to her, such as “gamifying tasks” and taking medication. My conversation with Interviewee A gave me some great insights, and it left me hopeful that my app will help people with disabilities find other people who can understand them.


## Interviewee B Report
My second interviewee was Interviewee B, who is also a recent college graduate. Interviewee B lives in Massachusetts and has had chronic pain from endometriosis as well as anxiety since she was a teenager. Interviewee B told me that she likes to use Instagram to see what her friends are up to and to view content about endometriosis. As we went through her Instagram app together, I noticed that many of the story highlights on her profile were posts from endometriosis activists. Interviewee B also uses Facebook to keep in touch with her family and to join endometriosis support groups. One such group that she has found helpful is Nancy’s Nook, which recommends qualified doctors in her area. Despite finding social media useful, Interviewee B finds it “distressing” to see graphic content posted without any warnings, and has also found it difficult to be on social media during periods when a lot of content is being shared about “global turmoil.”

Interviewee B shared that she learns a lot from other people with endometriosis online—everything from how to interact with doctors to how endometriosis works, which helps her understand what’s going on with her body. This is important to her because she feels that doctors don’t listen to her or take her seriously, and that they can’t explain her condition to her because they only have a few minutes per patient. One thing that I found surprising during our conversation was that Interviewee B also felt misunderstood by other people with disabilities—such as her dad with chronic pain, who doesn’t believe that she also has chronic pain—and even other people with endometriosis—such as one who insisted that dieting and yoga would cure her. This is a useful insight for my design, as I want to ensure that I make space for people with a certain disability to engage in dialogue while also not making the space too exclusive so that people outside the community can learn from it. Finally, Interviewee B shared that she does not know anyone else with both endometriosis and anxiety, but that she would like to. After talking to Interviewee B, I felt ready to think about design opportunities to create an app with both her and Interview A in mind.


## Design Opportunities 
- **Community pages**: I would like my app to have a community for each mental illness or disability represented. Each community will have a dedicated page, where users can post about their experiences and offer advice, or interact with other people's posts. An individual user can be a part of multiple communities and bookmark the pages of the communities they visit often. After talking to each interviewee, it was clear that they benefited from sharing resources with other people with the same disabilities online, so it makes sense to organize these people and resources into one easy-to-find place. My interviewees also each have more than one disability, which is why I want to make sure that there is an easy way for users to participate in and benefit from the support of more than one community.  
- **Community rules**: Since each community might have different conventions to make the space more accessible for people with a certain disability, I would like for each community to agree on a set of rules that can be changed by consensus. Posts or comments that violate rules or are irrelevant can be reported. Both of my interviewees mentioned that seeing excessive negative news took a toll on their mental state, and Interviewee B shared that unexpected graphic content was upsetting to her. Seeing as this app is meant for people (including those who may have triggers) to find support, these types of content are inappropriate, which is why I would like to prohibit it. Similarly, the people within a certain community would be most knowledgeable about what kind of content is harmful for that community, which is why I would like to give them the autonomy to decide what cannot be posted there.
- **Cross-posting on different communities**: When posting, a user can decide if they would like their post to be cross-posted on another community as well as the one they are making the post in. This way, users who have intersecting disabilities may share experiences that might only occur as a result of their disabilities interacting. They can therefore benefit from interactions with people in either community or even people with the same set of disabilities. Interviewee A's anecdote about how her ADHD and depression resulted in a compounded experience made me realize that people with intersecting disabilities don't often receive support for the problems that result from the sum of them. However, as we have seen, finding people with the same struggles can be very helpful, and I want to make posts about intersecting disabilities as visible as possible to other people who might be in the same situation.
- **Filtering by location**: Within a community, a user can filter posts by location in order to find posts about resources in their area. Interviewee B's use of Facebook groups to find qualified doctors in her area, especially when so many doctors have been dismissive of her in the past, helped me to see that on social media, support for people with disabilities does not have to end at online advice, and that it can extend to in-person resources as well.
